we're going to be looking at
linear elastic deformation
and so first what we mean by elastic is
just that when we load a sample up so
this is my stress strain
data say take it on that pencil machine
i could
instead of running this to failure like
you saw we could stop after some load
some stress value and unload and we
would end up back
at zero and that's the definition of
elastic we would return
to our original shape there's no
permanent
deformation in this case we're only
stretching bonds
and in many material systems this
early region this initial region of the
stress string curve
is also linear so under those conditions
then we can simply take the slope of
this linear region
and define that as our elastic modulus
or young's modulus is also another way
of referring
to this value okay that typically has
some units of like gigapascals
for metals maybe megapascals for
polymers
and so if we just rearrange this
equation and we have stress is equal to
this
elastic modulus times strain and we have
what's called hooke's law
this elastic modulus is a material
property
right so notice how our definition of
stress and strain allowed us to take the
dimensions
out of the sample and so that we had a
material property that's independent
of sample dimensions if we left it as a
force uh equal to k
times instead of strain now just a
position
a displacement of our sample
we would have what we're used to from
physics for a spring where k would be
the spring stiffness
but now if i was to increase the
area of my sample then in order to get
the same displacement
x i would need to pick up the force
otherwise the stiffness would go up
this is dependent upon geometry so this
is why we don't use
this form but we put it into stress and
strain
and use hooke's law for shear we have
the shear modulus
shear stress and shear strain which we
just saw recently
defined
all right for some materials the
initial region is no longer linear
that's the example of a cast iron so
cast iron if you were to unload at some
point
it will return it may have some
hysteresis
but it will generally follow this curve
and it will return
to zero strain so we will recover all of
the
strains put into the sample and hence
it's elastic but you can clearly see
that it's not linear
so we can't define
the elastic modulus like we did
previously because we don't have a
linear region
so what we could do is is either define
something like a secant modulus
so we just draw a straight line from
the origin here up to some value and we
pull off the slope of that
and that would be referred to as a
secant modulus
at sigma one or we could pick some some
value here sigma 2
and then we could just define the
tangent at that point
and that would also and of course be a
stress over strain so this is referred
to as a tangent modulus
with these we do have to define these
sigma values of where the measurement
was taken
from all right so that's our example of
cast iron and we'll
take a look at some real data in a
couple of videos from now
showing you the actual form of cast iron
but this is referred to again as
non-linear
elastic
deformation
all right so next time we're going to go
ahead and take a look at
the bonding again that we did in chapter
and we'll see how this is related to the
elastic modulus